As we just saw, the Poisson
model is lacking for these data.
However, assuming the model fit is
adequate, we could interpret the results.
Let's look at a summary from
these model simulations.
In this model, the intercept is
not necessarily interpretable
because it corresponds
to a healthy 0 year old.
Whereas in this dataset the youngest
person is 20 years old.
It is still an important parameter
we just won't interpret it.
For healthy individuals
it appears that age
has a positive association with
the number of doctor visits.
Clearly bad health is associated with
an increase in expected number of visits.
The interaction term is
interpreted as an adjustment
to the age coefficient for
people in bad health.
So in this case it looks like, for
a person with bad health,
the age coefficient would switch
from being positive to being negative
because we would subtract this off.
Remember, here the interpretation
is if a coefficient is positive,
then there is a positive association
between that variable and
the expected number of doctor visits.
If the coefficient is negative, then
it's a negative association between that
variable and the number of doctor visits.
Everything we've done so far,
could have easily been computed
using the Default Reference Analysis
from the functions in R.
So now, let's do something
where it really pays off
to have an Bayesian Analysis
with posterior samples.
Let's say, we have two people age 35.
One person is in good health and
the other person is in poor health.
What is the posterior probability
that the individual with poor health
will have more doctor visits?
This goes beyond the posterior
probabilities we've calculated
comparing expected responses
in the previous lessons.
Here, we need to create
Monte Carlo samples for
the actual responses themselves.
This is done by taking the Monte Carlo
samples of the model parameters and
for each of those drawing
a sample from the likelihood.
Let's walk through this.
First, we need the x values.
The predictor variable values for
each individual.
We'll say that the healthy
person is person 1,
for person 1, their bad health indicator
will be 0 because they are in good health.
Their age is 35, and
the interaction term which is
the product of the first two is also 0.
For the second person who is in poor
health, we have 1 to indicate bad health.
They are also age 35 and
the product of those two for
the interaction term of course is 35.
Let's run these two, okay.
Remember that all
the posterior samples for
the model parameters
are stored In mod_csim.
So let's look at the head of that,
mod_csim.
For these two individuals, we need to
compute the linear part of the predictor.
So let's do the log of lambda for
person 1.
Which will be mod_csim.
And we want to grab first the intercept
term for all of the rows.
And we want the intercept
column of that matrix.
Then to that we'll add mod_csim.
We want all rows again.
And now we want columns 2, 1, and
3 in that order because remember,
we fit the model.
Because we fit the model first with
the bad health indicator, followed by age,
followed by the interaction.
So column 2 is the bad health indicator.
Then we need the age,
which is column 1 and
then we need the interaction
term which is column three.
We will matrix multiply this with the
values of the predictors for person one.
We also need to do this for person two.
And the only thing we need to change is
that we're using the predictor values for
x for person two.
We'll call that logLan2.
We run both of these and
this gives us a Monte Carlo sample
of the linear part of the model.
So we have one for
each sample from the posterior.
Now that we have samples from
the posterior distribution of the log of
lambda for these individuals, we need to
get the posterior distribution of lambda.
So we'll say lam1 will be
an exponentiated version of log lambda 1.
And we'll do the same for person two.
We now have Monte Carlo samples for the
Poisson mean for these two individuals.
Let's take a look at the posterior
distribution for Lambda 1 for person 1.
Let's plot a density estimate of lam1.
For person 1,
we would expect on average for
them to have between 1.8 and
2 doctor visits.
Remember, our question was what
is the posterior probability that
person two will have more doctor visits?
That's different than the number
of doctor visits on average,
we want actual doctor visits.
So now, with the posterior distribution
for Lambda, we now need to
simulate a Monte Carlo sample of actual
number of visits for each of them.
First we need to know how many
simulations we're calculating.
This would be the length of lambda 1.
Which is also the length of lambda 2.
Its 15,000 because we ran three
chains each with 5,000 iterations.
Simulating from the likelihood
is very straightforward here.
For person1 we'll draw from
a Poisson distribution, rpois.
And we're going to create n_sim,
simulations from that Poisson
distribution, where the mean is lambda 1.
So for each draw of the Poisson
we're going to use a different value
from our Monte Carlo sample of lambda 1.
The same goes for person 2.
Their doctor visits that
we're going to simulate
will come from a Poisson distribution.
Where the means will come from our
Monte Carlo sample for the lambda twos.
We'll run that.
And let's plot the posterior distribution
for these number of visits for
the two people.
First we want to plot for
person 1, we want to plot a table
of y1 as a factor variable.
So we need to say factor(y1) and
let's plot this for up to 18 visits.
We want this table to output
probabilities instead of counts, so
let's divide by the number of simulations.
Let's run this plot.
So along the x axis we have
the number of doctor visits and
along the y axis the probability
of those number of doctor visits.
There is also a possibility that
they have 0 doctor visits so
let's include 0 as a level.
Right there's a 15% probability that
this person has zero doctor visits.
Now let's add the posterior
distribution for person two.
I'm going to shift them just slightly here
so that we can see both sets of points.
We'll make this one colored red.
And we need to change this
from plots to points.
We can also get rid of the factor,
variable here.
And now let's run it.
We now have the posterior distribution
of the number of visits for
the person in poor health and
the posterior distribution for
the number of visits of
the person in good health.
Finally, we can answer
our original question.
What is the probability that
the person with poor health
will have more doctor visits than
the person with good health?
We can take take the Monte Carlo
mean of that indicator variable,
y2 is greater than y1.
For each Monte Carlo sample,
it evaluates whether person two had
more doctor visits than person one.
And the average of that is
the posterior probability.
Let's run that.
We get about 92%.
That is,
the posterior probability that person2
will have more doctor
visits than person1 is 92%.
Because we used our posterior samples for
the model parameters in our simulation.
This posterior predictive distribution on
the number of visits for these two new
individuals naturally takes into account
our uncertainty in these model estimates.
That creates for us a more honest or
realistic distribution than we would
get if we had just fixed the model
parameters at their maximum likelihood
estimates or some other point estimate.
It's a nice example of the advantages
that a Bayesian model can give us here.